# Copy of Digi-Learn

Original Project [Digi-Learn](https://github.com/BIGGOOO/Digi-Learn)

Built by 
* [Muhammad Danial Siddiqui](https://github.com/BIGGOOO)
* [Muhammad Talha](https://github.com/MuhammadTalha-crypto)
* [Martin William](https://github.com/MartinSWDev)

Participating in the [PowerToFly](https://powertofly.com/) Hackathon in June 2022

Video of the deployed version we got running just in time is on my [twitter](https://twitter.com/MartinSWDev/status/1540989701829574657)

[Deployed Version](https://martinswdev.github.io/Digi-Learn/)


## Project Idea
INTRODUCTION:
The main idea for this app revolves around the phenomenon of providing the students an ideal
and interactive digital learning platform where they can easily perform their academic activities
and improvised their digital learning process. Our app comprises of the following features:
The app will track the progress of students and review their previous academic record
such as: last attempted quiz or test. It will then generate a recommendation based course
feedback, which will provide course or video suggestions to the students in their less
scoring topics or course.
The app focuses on 360 skill set of students, and not only on their academics. The app
will provide timely feedback about student social activities, class participation and extra
curriculum. For e.g. If a student is not participating well in extracurricular activities, it
will generate a feedback related to it.
Parents and teachers will be notified with student’s behavior, through feedback generated
based on the student participation in extra curriculum, academic records, discipline and
the number of hours they have studied individually as well in groups.
The app will predict the student grades for the upcoming exam, based on the teacher and
parent feedback they receive.

PROBLEM STATEMENT:
Distant learning has influenced the students learning process skeptically. The general problems
faced by students in online education is as follows:
1. Poor Academic Results:
In digital learning, lack of understanding for the topics and poor academic results
can make student demotivated and they can lose interest towards their studies.
2. Distractions and Less Student Engagement:
Wireless devices and lack of teacher and student interaction in online education,
tend to make students distracted more easily during the class than in physical
education. It impacts the student interaction and engagement in the classroom,
which leads to poor academic results and low understanding of the topics.
3. Lack of Social Activities and Sedentary Lifestyle:
Staying at home, sedentary lifestyle and lack of extracurricular activities affects
student thought process and academic performance as well. Lack of social
activities can lead to less class participation, social anxiety and several health
problems (physical and mental).
4. Lack of Student- Teacher Interaction:
Absence of student- teacher interaction affects the behavioral engagement of
students as indexed by supportive contribution, maintaining classroom rules and
regulations, self-management, discipline, patience and efforts.
5. Lack of Teacher- Parents Interaction:
Lack of teacher- parent interaction damage the students motivational,
emotional, social, behavioral and academic adjustment.

SUGGESTED SOLUTIONS:
1. Our app solves the problem, by tracking the progress of students and their previous
academic results. It will generate a timely feedback about the results and will also
recommend the courses for student about a particular topic or subject which have to be
improved. This helps in keeping the students motivated and dedicated towards their
studies.
2. The interactive live sessions and the feedback generated on the basis of class
participation and interaction, will make the students interactive in their class.
3. The app will track student’s lifestyle habits, social, class participation and extracurricular
activities. It will also generate a feedback on the factors that needs to be improved,
which helps in character building of a student and maintaining good academic records
as well.
4. The interactive and live sessions between the student and teachers bridge the
communication gap between them. The teacher will receive the feedbacks from the app
about student performance and behavior, based on their academic records and the
social activities they perform.
5. Through the feedback generated by the teachers and app, parents can receive the
progress of their children and can help them in improving their behavior and academic
progress. 

## Walk through
1. View front page
2. Click "My Profile" in top right corner
3. Try the quiz
